README.md, before:

# quarto-arabic-mwe
Minimum(ish) working example of Quarto source files of English main text with Arabic divs and spans.

Output is published here: https://adamiturabi.github.io/quarto-arabic-mwe/

# To build

Install [Quarto](https://quarto.org/docs/get-started/).

Install the [Charis SIL](https://software.sil.org/charis/download/),
[Amiri](https://github.com/alif-type/amiri/releases/latest),
and [Vazirmatn](https://github.com/rastikerdar/vazirmatn/releases/tag/v33.003)
fonts.

Install the Python3 package `jupyter`:

```
python3 -m pip install jupyter
```

If it doesn't let you install the package in this way, then follow directions to install it in a virtual environment:

```
python3 -m venv path/to/venv
source path/to/venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install jupyter
```

In the above repo, within the venv just created (if applicable), 
use this command to render the HTML and PDF outputs:

```
source path/to/venv/bin/activate
quarto render
```

# Figures

To render the tikz figures, you need Ghostscript and Dvisvgm.

There is some experimental code (currently disabled) to use Inkscape instead.
To install inkscape on Mac (without sudo):

```
brew install --cask inkscape
```

Commit message:

fixed ghostscript path and svg scaling and option to use pdf figures for html output.

README.md, after:

# quarto-arabic-mwe
Minimum(ish) working example of Quarto source files of English main text with Arabic divs and spans.

Output is published here: https://adamiturabi.github.io/quarto-arabic-mwe/

# To build

Install [Quarto](https://quarto.org/docs/get-started/).

Install the [Charis SIL](https://software.sil.org/charis/download/),
[Amiri](https://github.com/alif-type/amiri/releases/latest),
and [Vazirmatn](https://github.com/rastikerdar/vazirmatn/releases/tag/v33.003)
fonts.

Install the Python3 package `jupyter`:

```
python3 -m pip install jupyter
```

If it doesn't let you install the package in this way, then follow directions to install it in a virtual environment:

```
python3 -m venv path/to/venv
source path/to/venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install jupyter
```

In the above repo, within the venv just created (if applicable), 
use this command to render the HTML and PDF outputs:

```
source path/to/venv/bin/activate
quarto render
```

# Figures

To render the tikz figures, you need Ghostscript and Dvisvgm.

Note that if you use Homebrew on MacOS to manage installation of the ghostscript utility, then, when it updates packages it will change the version number in the path and delete the old path. So then, if you don't update the `libgs` field in `_quarto.yml` to point to the new path then your figures will start to look corrupted.

There is some experimental code (currently disabled) to use Inkscape instead.
To install inkscape on Mac (without sudo):

```
brew install --cask inkscape
```
